Patient Admission and Setup
1.
Warm Welcome**: Greet each patient with a friendly smile and address them by name.
Introduce yourself by stating your role and purpose, while maintaining eye contact to build trust and rapport.
2.
Secure Personal Belongings**: Politely ask the patient to place their personal items, such as bags, coats,
or any valuables, in a designated safe area that is easily accessible and visible during their
visit.
This ensures both safety and peace of mind.
3.
Engage in Conversation**: Begin a light, friendly conversation to help the patient feel at ease.
Ask about their day or any recent experiences to create a comfortable environment that encourages open communication.
4.
Explain Procedures in Detail**: Clearly outline what the patient can expect throughout their visit.
Describe each procedure step-by-step and encourage the patient to ask questions, addressing
any concerns they may have to ensure they feel informed and secure.
Positioning the Patient**:
Upright Position**: This position is typically used when the patient is entering
the office, being dismissed after their appointment, or when taking radiographs and
impressions.
It allows for easy interaction and is comfortable for brief periods.
Supine Position**: The most common position used for a wide variety of dental procedures.
In this position, the patient lies back on the dental chair, ensuring they remain relaxed and stable throughout the treatment.
Subsupine Position**: In cases of medical emergencies, this position is utilized where the patient’s head is lowered below their feet.
This posture can help improve blood flow to the brain during emergencies and is crucial for timely medical assistance.